:_basedir:
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:notoc:
:notitle:
:metadata:

[[index]]


= Decision Making

== Decision Making

All [Contributors](roles.html) are encouraged to participate in
decisions, but the decision itself is made by those that have
[Committer](roles.html) status in the Project. In other words, the
Project is a *Minimum Threshold Meritocracy*.

Any subscriber to the list may vote on any issue or action item.
However, the only binding votes are those cast by a Committer. If the
vote is about a change to the source code or documentation and the
primary uthor is a Contributor and not a Committer, the primary author
of whatis being changed may also cast a binding vote on that issue.

The act of voting carries certain obligations. Voting members are not
only stating their opinion, they are also agreeing to help do the work.

Each vote can be made in one of three flavors:

<table class="altBgColor">
<tr class="b">
    <td>
        <strong>+1</strong>
    </td>
    <td>
        "Yes," "Agree," or "the action should be performed."<br/>
        On some issues this is only binding if the voter has tested the
        action on their own system(s).
    </td>
</tr>
<tr class="a">
    <td>
        <strong>+/-0</strong>
    </td>
    <td>
        "Abstain," "no opinion".<br/>
        An abstention may have detrimental effects if too many people
        abstain.
    </td>
</tr>
<tr class="b">
    <td>
        <strong>-1</strong>
    </td>
    <td>
        "No."<br/>
        On issues where consensus is required, this vote counts as a
        <strong>veto</strong>. All vetos must contain an explanation of
        why the veto is appropriate. Vetos with no explanation are void.
        No veto can be overruled. If you disagree with the veto, you
        should lobby the person who cast the veto. Voters intending to
        veto an action item should make their opinions known to the
        group immediately so that the problem can be remedied as early
        as possible.
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

An action requiring consensus approval must receive at least **3 binding
+1** votes and **no binding vetos**. An action requiring majority
approval must receive at least **3 binding +1** votes and more **+1**
votes than **-1** votes. All other action items are considered to have
lazy approval until somebody votes **-1**, after which point they are
decided by either consensus or majority vote, depending on the type of
action item.

== Action Items

All decisions revolve around *Action Items*. Action Items consist of the following:

   * Long Term Plans
   * Short Term Plans
   * Release Plan
   * Release Testing
   * Showstoppers
   * Product Changes


=== Long Term Plans

Long term plans are simply announcements that group members are working
on particular issues related to the Project. These are not voted on, but
Committers who do not agree with a particular plan, or think that an
alternative plan would be better, are obligated to inform the group of
their feelings.


=== Short Term Plans

Short term plans are announcements that a volunteer is working on a
particular set of documentation or code files with the implication that
other volunteers should avoid them or try to coordinate their changes.


=== Release Plan

A release plan is used to keep all volunteers aware of when a release is
desired, who will be the release manager, when the repository will be
frozen to create a release, and other assorted information to keep
volunteers from tripping over each other. Lazy majority decides each
issue in a release plan.


=== Release Testing

After a new release is built, it must be tested before being released to
the public. Majority approval is required before the release can be
made.


=== Showstoppers

Showstoppers are issues that require a fix be in place before the next
public release. They are listed in the status file in order to focus
special attention on these problems. An issue becomes a showstopper when
it is listed as such in the status file and remains so by lazy
consensus.


=== Product Changes

Changes to the products of the Project, including code and
documentation, will appear as action items in the status file. All
product changes to the currently active repository are subject to lazy
consensus.
