:_basedir:
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:notoc:
:notitle:
:metadata:

[[index]]


= PMC Bylaws

== Project Management Committee Bylaws

The Project Management Committee (PMC) was formed by the Apache Board on 17
July 2002. The bylaws were last amended on 6 October 2004. There is no preset
number of seats on the PMC. The PMC will strive to add every committer within
DB that, in the opinion of the PMC as determined by a vote, displays the
capability and desire to help guide the DB project. The PMC will nominate a
chairperson from amongst their ranks for presentation to the Board. The list
of current members can be found in our link:whoweare.html[Project Credits].


=== Roles

The PMC is responsible for the strategic direction and success of the DB
Project. This governing body is expected to ensure the project's welfare and
guide its overall direction. The PMC may not necessarily participate in the
day-to-day coding but is involved in the overall development plans, the
alleviation of any bottlenecks, the resolution of conflicts, and the overall
technical success of the project.

The PMC is answerable to the Apache Board with its Chairman serving as
primary liaison.


=== Meetings

The PMC discusses issues and determines strategic direction via mail list.
All binding votes happen on the PMC list.


=== Membership

PMC members may resign at any time. A committer will remain on the DB PMC
until removed by desire of the committer, action of the board, or vote by the
PMC. The Chairman may resign as Chairman at any time without resigning
membership to the PMC. The chairperson will serve until voluntary
resignation, action of the board, or vote by the PMC. The Chairman or any
member may be removed from the PMC by a 3/4 vote of the PMC.

In order to be elected to the PMC, a person must have served as a
link:roles.html[Committer] and be nominated by a PMC Member. The nominee must
receive 3/4 positive vote with a minimum of 3 positive votes. Abstaining PMC
voters do not affect the result.


=== Creation of Subprojects

PMC members may propose the creation of new subprojects. Creation of a new
subproject requires approval by 3/4 positve vote with a minimum of 3 positive
votes of the PMC. Abstaining PMC voters do not affect the result. New code
enters the DB project in accordance with ASF policy.


=== Voting

The call for a vote on issues not detailed here may specify requirements for
passage. The minimum and default requirement for a passing vote is a simple
majority of PMC members casting ballots. The default voting period is 10 days
and the minimum is 7 days unless the success or failure is arithmetically
known.
